plugins/teamwork/README.md, before:

# teamwork

Multi-session collaboration plugin with role-based workers, file-per-task storage, and parallel execution support.

## Overview

Teamwork enables distributed collaboration across multiple Claude sessions. The unified orchestrator handles project planning, monitoring, and verification orchestration, while specialized workers claim and execute tasks in parallel. Each worker runs in its own terminal session, coordinating through shared task files with optimistic concurrency control.

**Key capabilities:**
- Unified orchestrator for planning, monitoring, and verification (v2)
- Role-based task assignment (frontend, backend, test, devops, etc.)
- Wave-based parallel execution with dependency management (v2)
- Three-tier verification (task, wave, project levels) (v2)
- Optimistic concurrency control (OCC) for conflict-free operations (v2)
- Fresh start mechanism for releasing stuck tasks (v2)
- Continuous loop mode for unattended execution
- Dashboard status view with wave progress tracking
- Cross-platform support (Windows, MacOS, Linux)

## Features

- **Wave-Based Execution** (v2): Tasks organized into parallel execution waves based on dependencies
- **Parallel Execution**: Multiple workers run simultaneously in separate terminals
- **Role Specialization**: Workers filter tasks by role (frontend, backend, test, etc.)
- **Three-Tier Verification** (v2): Task-level, wave-level, and final project verification
- **Structured Evidence** (v2): Command outputs, file changes, and test results tracked systematically
- **Optimistic Concurrency Control** (v2): Timestamp-based conflict detection prevents race conditions without file locks
- **Fresh Start Mechanism** (v2): Automatic release of stuck tasks after configurable timeout
- **Loop Mode**: Workers automatically claim next task until project complete
- **Progress Dashboard**: Real-time status view with wave progress and completion metrics
- **Zero Build Step**: Pure JavaScript with JSDoc types (no TypeScript compilation)

## Installation

### From Marketplace

```bash
claude plugin marketplace add mnthe/hardworker-marketplace
claude plugin install teamwork@hardworker-marketplace
```

### Local Development

```bash
claude --plugin-dir /path/to/teamwork
```

## Usage

### Basic Workflow (v2 with Waves)

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start project with plan documents (enables wave execution)
/teamwork --plans docs/plan1.md docs/plan2.md

# Or with goal (traditional mode)
/teamwork "build REST API with authentication and tests"

# Terminal 2: Start backend worker
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop

# Terminal 3: Start frontend worker
/teamwork-worker --role frontend --loop

# Terminal 4: Check progress with wave visualization
/teamwork-status

# Terminal 5 (optional): Manual verification trigger
/teamwork-verify --wave 2
```

### Traditional Workflow (v1 compatibility)

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start project (coordination)
/teamwork "build REST API with authentication and tests"

# Terminal 2: Start backend worker
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop

# Terminal 3: Start frontend worker
/teamwork-worker --role frontend --loop

# Terminal 4: Check progress
/teamwork-status
```

### One-Shot Worker

```bash
# Complete one task then exit
/teamwork-worker
```

### Continuous Worker

```bash
# Keep claiming tasks until project complete
/teamwork-worker --loop

# Specialized continuous worker
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop
```

### Status Dashboard

```bash
# Basic status
/teamwork-status

# Detailed task list
/teamwork-status --verbose
```

## Commands

| Command            | Description                                             | Options                                                                   |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `/teamwork <goal>` | Start coordination session, create task breakdown       | `--project NAME`, `--team NAME`, `--plans FILE...` (v2)                   |
| `/teamwork-status` | View dashboard with progress metrics and active workers | `--project NAME`, `--team NAME`, `--verbose`                              |
| `/teamwork-worker` | Claim and complete one task (one-shot mode)             | `--loop`, `--role ROLE`, `--strict` (v2), `--project NAME`, `--team NAME` |
| `/teamwork-verify` | Trigger manual verification (v2)                        | `--wave N`, `--final`, `--project NAME`, `--team NAME`                    |

### Options

#### /teamwork

| Option           | Description                                    |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `--project NAME` | Override project name (default: git repo name) |
| `--team NAME`    | Override team name (default: git branch name)  |
| `--plans FILE...` | (v2) Plan documents to parse for wave-based execution |

#### /teamwork-worker

| Option           | Default | Description                                             |
| ---------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--loop`         | false   | Continuous mode - keep working until all tasks complete |
| `--role ROLE`    | (none)  | Only claim tasks assigned to this role                  |
| `--strict`       | false   | (v2) Require structured evidence (ultrawork-level verification) |
| `--fresh-start-interval` | 3600 | (v2) Release stuck tasks after N seconds (0 = disabled) |
| `--project NAME` | (auto)  | Override project name detection                         |
| `--team NAME`    | (auto)  | Override team name detection                            |

#### /teamwork-status

| Option           | Description                                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `--project NAME` | Override project name detection                   |
| `--team NAME`    | Override team name detection                      |
| `--verbose`      | Show detailed task list with status and ownership |

#### /teamwork-verify (v2)

| Option           | Description                                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `--wave N`       | Verify specific wave (cross-task checks)          |
| `--final`        | Run final project verification                    |
| `--project NAME` | Override project name detection                   |
| `--team NAME`    | Override team name detection                      |

## Agents

| Agent               | Model   | Purpose                   | Key Responsibilities                                            |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **orchestrator**    | opus    | Monitoring & Orchestration | (v2) Monitors waves, triggers verification, handles conflicts  |
| **wave-verifier**   | sonnet  | Wave Verification         | (v2) Cross-task checks, conflict detection, wave-level tests    |
| **final-verifier**  | opus    | Project Verification      | (v2) Full project build/test, evidence completeness validation  |
| **coordinator**     | opus    | Planning (DEPRECATED)     | **Deprecated:** Use orchestrator instead. Kept for backward compatibility. |
| **frontend**        | inherit | UI Implementation         | UI components, styling, user interactions                       |
| **backend**         | inherit | API Implementation        | API endpoints, services, database, business logic               |
| **test**            | inherit | Testing                   | Unit tests, integration tests, fixtures, mocks                  |
| **devops**          | inherit | Infrastructure            | CI/CD pipelines, deployment, infrastructure                     |
| **docs**            | inherit | Documentation             | README files, API documentation, examples                       |
| **security**        | inherit | Security                  | Authentication, authorization, input validation                 |
| **review**          | inherit | Code Review               | Code review, refactoring suggestions                            |
| **worker**          | inherit | General Purpose           | Claims tasks for any role (fallback agent)                      |

## How It Works

### Architecture Diagram

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│      Orchestrator (Unified, Opus Model)      │
│   Planning → Monitoring → Verification       │
└───────────────────┬──────────────────────────┘
                    │
    ┌───────────────┴────────────────┐
    ▼                                ▼
┌────────────────────┐    ┌────────────────────┐
│   Workers (8 types) │    │  Verification      │
│   - frontend        │    │  - wave-verifier   │
│   - backend         │    │  - final-verifier  │
│   - test, devops    │    └────────────────────┘
│   - docs, security  │
│   - review, worker  │
└────────────────────┘

         All coordinate via:
    ┌──────────────────────────┐
    │  Shared Task Files       │
    │  (Optimistic Concurrency)│
    └──────────────────────────┘
```

### Phase 1: Planning

```
/teamwork "build REST API"
    ↓
Orchestrator agent spawned (uses Opus model)
    ↓
Analyzes codebase and requirements
    ↓
Creates task breakdown with roles
    ↓
Calculates wave dependencies (v2)
    ↓
Writes task files to shared directory
```

### Phase 2: Parallel Execution

```
Terminal 1: /teamwork-worker --role backend --loop
    ↓ (claims task #1: "Setup database schema")
    ↓ (completes task, marks resolved)
    ↓ (claims task #2: "Build API endpoints")

Terminal 2: /teamwork-worker --role frontend --loop
    ↓ (claims task #3: "Create login form")
    ↓ (completes task, marks resolved)
    ↓ (claims task #4: "Build dashboard")
```

### Phase 3: Monitoring

```
Terminal 3: /teamwork-status --verbose
    ↓
Shows progress dashboard:
- Overall completion percentage
- Per-role completion metrics
- Active workers and claimed tasks
- Blocked tasks waiting on dependencies
```

### Phase 4: Verification (v2)

```
Wave N completed (all tasks resolved)
    ↓
Orchestrator detects completion
    ↓
Triggers wave-verifier agent
    ↓
Cross-task checks:
- File conflict detection
- Dependency validation
- Wave-scoped build/test
    ↓
Results: PASS → next wave | FAIL → fix tasks added
    ↓ (if final wave passed)
Triggers final-verifier agent
    ↓
Project-level checks:
- Full build/test
- Evidence completeness
- Blocked pattern scanning
    ↓
Results: PASS → COMPLETE | FAIL → new fix wave
```

### Concurrency Safety

Teamwork handles multiple workers accessing shared state with Optimistic Concurrency Control (v2):

- **OCC (Optimistic Concurrency Control)**: Timestamp-based conflict detection without file locks
- **Atomic operations**: Task status updates include timestamp validation
- **Retry logic**: Workers retry on conflicts with fresh data
- **Stale detection**: Workers detect when tasks are claimed by others via timestamp checks
- **No lock files**: Eliminates lock contention, deadlocks, and stale lock issues
- **Filesystem agnostic**: Works reliably on NFS, network drives, and all filesystems

## Configuration

### Command Options

Teamwork is configured via command-line flags:

| Option           | Default             | Description                              |
| ---------------- | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `--project`      | Git repo name       | Override project name                    |
| `--team`         | Git branch name     | Override team name                       |
| `--role`         | none (all roles)    | Filter tasks by role                     |
| `--loop`         | false               | Continuous mode (claim tasks until done) |
| `--verbose`      | false               | Show detailed task information           |

### Role Assignment

Tasks are assigned roles during coordination phase:

| Role         | Use Cases                                      |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `frontend`   | UI components, styling, user interactions      |
| `backend`    | API endpoints, services, database              |
| `test`       | Unit tests, integration tests                  |
| `devops`     | CI/CD, deployment, infrastructure              |
| `docs`       | Documentation, README, examples                |
| `security`   | Authentication, authorization, validation      |
| `review`     | Code review, refactoring suggestions           |
| `worker`     | General purpose (claims any role)              |

## Storage

### Directory Structure

```
~/.claude/teamwork/{project}/{team}/
├── project.json              # Project metadata and statistics
├── waves.json                # Wave definitions and progress (v2)
├── tasks/
│   ├── 1.json                # Individual task files
│   ├── 2.json
│   └── ...
└── verification/             # Verification results (v2)
    ├── wave-1.json
    ├── wave-2.json
    └── final.json
```

### Task File Format

```json
{
  "id": "1",
  "title": "Setup database schema",
  "description": "Create user and post tables with migrations",
  "role": "backend",
  "status": "open",
  "blocked_by": [],
  "wave": 1,
  "created_at": "2026-01-12T10:30:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2026-01-12T10:30:00Z",
  "claimed_by": null,
  "evidence": [
    {
      "type": "command",
      "command": "npm run migrate",
      "output": "Migration completed successfully",
      "exit_code": 0,
      "timestamp": "2026-01-12T10:35:00Z"
    },
    {
      "type": "file",
      "action": "created",
      "path": "prisma/migrations/001_users/migration.sql",
      "timestamp": "2026-01-12T10:34:00Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Task statuses:**
- `open`: Available for claiming
- `in_progress`: Claimed by a worker
- `resolved`: Completed with evidence

**Evidence types (v2):**
- `command`: Command execution with exit code
- `file`: File operations (created, modified, deleted)
- `test`: Test results with pass/fail counts
- `note`: General observations

### Project File Format

```json
{
  "project": "my-app",
  "team": "feature-auth",
  "goal": "Build REST API with authentication",
  "created_at": "2026-01-12T10:30:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2026-01-12T10:35:00Z",
  "stats": {
    "total": 10,
    "open": 3,
    "in_progress": 2,
    "resolved": 5
  }
}
```

## Workflows

### Interactive Workflow

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start project coordination
/teamwork "build todo app with React frontend and Express backend"

# Terminal 2: Backend specialist
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop

# Terminal 3: Frontend specialist
/teamwork-worker --role frontend --loop

# Terminal 4: Test specialist
/teamwork-worker --role test --loop

# Terminal 5: Monitor progress
/teamwork-status
```

### Single Developer Workflow

```bash
# Start project
/teamwork "implement user authentication"

# Work on one task at a time
/teamwork-worker

# Check what's left
/teamwork-status

# Continue with next task
/teamwork-worker
```

### Loop Mode Workflow

Loop mode uses hook-based continuation for unattended execution:

1. Worker completes a task
2. Outputs special marker: `__TEAMWORK_CONTINUE__`
3. Stop hook detects marker and checks for more tasks
4. Hook re-triggers `/teamwork-worker` with same context
5. Loop continues until no open tasks remain

**Loop state tracking:**
- State stored per-terminal in `~/.claude/teamwork/.loop-state/{pid}.json`
- Preserves project, team, and role filter across iterations
- Automatically cleaned up when loop exits

**Fresh start mechanism:**
- Workers output `__TEAMWORK_FRESH_START__` marker after N tasks (default: 10)
- Hook detects marker and restarts worker with fresh context
- Prevents context window bloat and stuck patterns
- Configurable via `--fresh-start-interval N` (0 to disable)

```bash
# Start continuous worker
/teamwork-worker --loop

# Or with role specialization
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop

# With custom fresh start interval
/teamwork-worker --loop --fresh-start-interval 5
```

### Project Override Workflow

```bash
# Work on specific project/team combination
/teamwork-worker --project myapp --team bugfix-123 --loop
```

## Troubleshooting

### Worker Not Finding Tasks

```bash
# Check if tasks exist
/teamwork-status --verbose

# Verify project and team names match
/teamwork-status --project myapp --team feature-123
```

### Tasks Not Being Claimed

```bash
# Check role filter - workers with --role only claim matching tasks
/teamwork-worker --role backend

# Use general worker to claim any role
/teamwork-worker
```

### Multiple Workers Claiming Same Task

This should not happen due to file-based locking. If it does:
- Check filesystem supports atomic operations
- Verify no NFS or network filesystem issues
- Check for stale lock files in task directory

### Loop Mode Not Continuing

```bash
# Check loop state file
cat ~/.claude/teamwork/.loop-state/{pid}.json

# Verify stop hook is registered
# Loop mode requires hook system to be active
```

### Project State Corruption

```bash
# Task files are individual JSON files
# If corrupted, manually fix the specific task file
nano ~/.claude/teamwork/{project}/{team}/tasks/{id}.json

# Or delete corrupted task and recreate
rm ~/.claude/teamwork/{project}/{team}/tasks/{id}.json
```

## Backward Compatibility

Teamwork v2 maintains full backward compatibility with v1:

### Compatibility Matrix

| Feature | v1 Behavior | v2 Behavior | Migration Required |
|---------|-------------|-------------|-------------------|
| **Commands** | `/teamwork`, `/teamwork-worker`, `/teamwork-status` | Same + `/teamwork-verify` | No - all v1 commands work |
| **Evidence** | Simple strings | Structured objects | No - both formats supported |
| **Waves** | Not used | Optional wave execution | No - enabled via `--plans` flag |
| **Verification** | Manual | Automatic (if waves.json exists) | No - opt-in |

### Migration Paths

**Existing Projects (v1 → v2)**:
1. Continue using v1 mode (no changes needed)
2. Add `waves.json` manually to enable wave verification
3. Use `--plans` flag on new projects for wave support

**New Projects**:
- Use `--plans` flag: Enables wave-based execution and verification
- Use goal string: Traditional v1 mode without waves

**Mixed Mode**:
- v1 projects can adopt wave verification by adding `waves.json`
- Workers support both evidence formats simultaneously
- Dashboard shows wave progress if waves.json exists, otherwise traditional view

## Requirements

- **Claude Code CLI**: Latest version with plugin support
- **Bun**: 1.3+ for script execution
- **Git**: For project/team name detection (optional)
- **Platform**: Windows, MacOS, or Linux
- **Filesystem**: Must support atomic file operations

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs(teamwork): update documentation for v2 unified orchestrator
[ultrawork] Session: f8e65abf-9a81-43b8-b981-10e4f545c75e | Task: 12

Update CLAUDE.md and README.md

Criteria met:
- CLAUDE.md updated with unified orchestrator architecture
- README.md updated with orchestrator in all workflow phases
- Architecture diagrams added showing unified orchestrator (no coordinator)
- New features documented: OCC, fresh start mechanism

Changes:
- Replaced coordinator references with unified orchestrator
- Updated concurrency safety sections to document OCC instead of file-based locking
- Added Fresh Start Mechanism documentation section
- Marked coordinator as DEPRECATED in agent tables
- Added architecture diagrams to both files
- Updated --fresh-start-interval parameter description

Files changed:
- plugins/teamwork/CLAUDE.md
- plugins/teamwork/README.md

plugins/teamwork/README.md, after:

# teamwork

Multi-session collaboration plugin with role-based workers, file-per-task storage, and parallel execution support.

## Overview

Teamwork enables distributed collaboration across multiple Claude sessions. The unified orchestrator handles project planning, monitoring, and verification orchestration, while specialized workers claim and execute tasks in parallel. Each worker runs in its own terminal session, coordinating through shared task files with optimistic concurrency control.

**Key capabilities:**
- Unified orchestrator for planning, monitoring, and verification (v2)
- Role-based task assignment (frontend, backend, test, devops, etc.)
- Wave-based parallel execution with dependency management (v2)
- Three-tier verification (task, wave, project levels) (v2)
- Optimistic concurrency control (OCC) for conflict-free operations (v2)
- Fresh start mechanism for releasing stuck tasks (v2)
- Continuous loop mode for unattended execution
- Dashboard status view with wave progress tracking
- Cross-platform support (Windows, MacOS, Linux)

## Features

- **Wave-Based Execution** (v2): Tasks organized into parallel execution waves based on dependencies
- **Parallel Execution**: Multiple workers run simultaneously in separate terminals
- **Role Specialization**: Workers filter tasks by role (frontend, backend, test, etc.)
- **Three-Tier Verification** (v2): Task-level, wave-level, and final project verification
- **Structured Evidence** (v2): Command outputs, file changes, and test results tracked systematically
- **Optimistic Concurrency Control** (v2): Timestamp-based conflict detection prevents race conditions without file locks
- **Fresh Start Mechanism** (v2): Automatic release of stuck tasks after configurable timeout
- **Loop Mode**: Workers automatically claim next task until project complete
- **Progress Dashboard**: Real-time status view with wave progress and completion metrics
- **Zero Build Step**: Pure JavaScript with JSDoc types (no TypeScript compilation)

## Installation

### From Marketplace

```bash
claude plugin marketplace add mnthe/hardworker-marketplace
claude plugin install teamwork@hardworker-marketplace
```

### Local Development

```bash
claude --plugin-dir /path/to/teamwork
```

## Usage

### Basic Workflow (v2 with Waves)

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start project with plan documents (enables wave execution)
/teamwork --plans docs/plan1.md docs/plan2.md

# Or with goal (traditional mode)
/teamwork "build REST API with authentication and tests"

# Terminal 2: Start backend worker
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop

# Terminal 3: Start frontend worker
/teamwork-worker --role frontend --loop

# Terminal 4: Check progress with wave visualization
/teamwork-status

# Terminal 5 (optional): Manual verification trigger
/teamwork-verify --wave 2
```

### Traditional Workflow (v1 compatibility)

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start project (coordination)
/teamwork "build REST API with authentication and tests"

# Terminal 2: Start backend worker
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop

# Terminal 3: Start frontend worker
/teamwork-worker --role frontend --loop

# Terminal 4: Check progress
/teamwork-status
```

### One-Shot Worker

```bash
# Complete one task then exit
/teamwork-worker
```

### Continuous Worker

```bash
# Keep claiming tasks until project complete
/teamwork-worker --loop

# Specialized continuous worker
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop
```

### Status Dashboard

```bash
# Basic status
/teamwork-status

# Detailed task list
/teamwork-status --verbose
```

## Commands

| Command            | Description                                             | Options                                                                   |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `/teamwork <goal>` | Start coordination session, create task breakdown       | `--project NAME`, `--team NAME`, `--plans FILE...` (v2)                   |
| `/teamwork-status` | View dashboard with progress metrics and active workers | `--project NAME`, `--team NAME`, `--verbose`                              |
| `/teamwork-worker` | Claim and complete one task (one-shot mode)             | `--loop`, `--role ROLE`, `--strict` (v2), `--project NAME`, `--team NAME` |
| `/teamwork-verify` | Trigger manual verification (v2)                        | `--wave N`, `--final`, `--project NAME`, `--team NAME`                    |

### Options

#### /teamwork

| Option           | Description                                    |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `--project NAME` | Override project name (default: git repo name) |
| `--team NAME`    | Override team name (default: git branch name)  |
| `--plans FILE...` | (v2) Plan documents to parse for wave-based execution |

#### /teamwork-worker

| Option           | Default | Description                                             |
| ---------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--loop`         | false   | Continuous mode - keep working until all tasks complete |
| `--role ROLE`    | (none)  | Only claim tasks assigned to this role                  |
| `--strict`       | false   | (v2) Require structured evidence (ultrawork-level verification) |
| `--fresh-start-interval` | 3600 | (v2) Release stuck tasks after N seconds (0 = disabled) |
| `--project NAME` | (auto)  | Override project name detection                         |
| `--team NAME`    | (auto)  | Override team name detection                            |

#### /teamwork-status

| Option           | Description                                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `--project NAME` | Override project name detection                   |
| `--team NAME`    | Override team name detection                      |
| `--verbose`      | Show detailed task list with status and ownership |

#### /teamwork-verify (v2)

| Option           | Description                                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `--wave N`       | Verify specific wave (cross-task checks)          |
| `--final`        | Run final project verification                    |
| `--project NAME` | Override project name detection                   |
| `--team NAME`    | Override team name detection                      |

## Agents

| Agent               | Model   | Purpose                   | Key Responsibilities                                            |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **orchestrator**    | opus    | Monitoring & Orchestration | (v2) Monitors waves, triggers verification, handles conflicts  |
| **wave-verifier**   | sonnet  | Wave Verification         | (v2) Cross-task checks, conflict detection, wave-level tests    |
| **final-verifier**  | opus    | Project Verification      | (v2) Full project build/test, evidence completeness validation  |
| **coordinator**     | opus    | Planning (DEPRECATED)     | **Deprecated:** Use orchestrator instead. Kept for backward compatibility. |
| **frontend**        | inherit | UI Implementation         | UI components, styling, user interactions                       |
| **backend**         | inherit | API Implementation        | API endpoints, services, database, business logic               |
| **test**            | inherit | Testing                   | Unit tests, integration tests, fixtures, mocks                  |
| **devops**          | inherit | Infrastructure            | CI/CD pipelines, deployment, infrastructure                     |
| **docs**            | inherit | Documentation             | README files, API documentation, examples                       |
| **security**        | inherit | Security                  | Authentication, authorization, input validation                 |
| **review**          | inherit | Code Review               | Code review, refactoring suggestions                            |
| **worker**          | inherit | General Purpose           | Claims tasks for any role (fallback agent)                      |

## How It Works

### Architecture Diagram

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│      Orchestrator (Unified, Opus Model)      │
│   Planning → Monitoring → Verification       │
└───────────────────┬──────────────────────────┘
                    │
    ┌───────────────┴────────────────┐
    ▼                                ▼
┌────────────────────┐    ┌────────────────────┐
│   Workers (8 types) │    │  Verification      │
│   - frontend        │    │  - wave-verifier   │
│   - backend         │    │  - final-verifier  │
│   - test, devops    │    └────────────────────┘
│   - docs, security  │
│   - review, worker  │
└────────────────────┘

         All coordinate via:
    ┌──────────────────────────┐
    │  Shared Task Files       │
    │  (Optimistic Concurrency)│
    └──────────────────────────┘
```

### Phase 1: Planning

```
/teamwork "build REST API"
    ↓
Orchestrator agent spawned (uses Opus model)
    ↓
Analyzes codebase and requirements
    ↓
Creates task breakdown with roles
    ↓
Calculates wave dependencies (v2)
    ↓
Writes task files to shared directory
```

### Phase 2: Parallel Execution

```
Terminal 1: /teamwork-worker --role backend --loop
    ↓ (claims task #1: "Setup database schema")
    ↓ (completes task, marks resolved)
    ↓ (claims task #2: "Build API endpoints")

Terminal 2: /teamwork-worker --role frontend --loop
    ↓ (claims task #3: "Create login form")
    ↓ (completes task, marks resolved)
    ↓ (claims task #4: "Build dashboard")
```

### Phase 3: Monitoring

```
Terminal 3: /teamwork-status --verbose
    ↓
Shows progress dashboard:
- Overall completion percentage
- Per-role completion metrics
- Active workers and claimed tasks
- Blocked tasks waiting on dependencies
```

### Phase 4: Verification (v2)

```
Wave N completed (all tasks resolved)
    ↓
Orchestrator detects completion
    ↓
Triggers wave-verifier agent
    ↓
Cross-task checks:
- File conflict detection
- Dependency validation
- Wave-scoped build/test
    ↓
Results: PASS → next wave | FAIL → fix tasks added
    ↓ (if final wave passed)
Triggers final-verifier agent
    ↓
Project-level checks:
- Full build/test
- Evidence completeness
- Blocked pattern scanning
    ↓
Results: PASS → COMPLETE | FAIL → new fix wave
```

### Concurrency Safety

Teamwork handles multiple workers accessing shared state with Optimistic Concurrency Control (v2):

- **OCC (Optimistic Concurrency Control)**: Timestamp-based conflict detection without file locks
- **Atomic operations**: Task status updates include timestamp validation
- **Retry logic**: Workers retry on conflicts with fresh data
- **Stale detection**: Workers detect when tasks are claimed by others via timestamp checks
- **No lock files**: Eliminates lock contention, deadlocks, and stale lock issues
- **Filesystem agnostic**: Works reliably on NFS, network drives, and all filesystems

## Configuration

### Command Options

Teamwork is configured via command-line flags:

| Option           | Default             | Description                              |
| ---------------- | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `--project`      | Git repo name       | Override project name                    |
| `--team`         | Git branch name     | Override team name                       |
| `--role`         | none (all roles)    | Filter tasks by role                     |
| `--loop`         | false               | Continuous mode (claim tasks until done) |
| `--verbose`      | false               | Show detailed task information           |

### Role Assignment

Tasks are assigned roles during coordination phase:

| Role         | Use Cases                                      |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `frontend`   | UI components, styling, user interactions      |
| `backend`    | API endpoints, services, database              |
| `test`       | Unit tests, integration tests                  |
| `devops`     | CI/CD, deployment, infrastructure              |
| `docs`       | Documentation, README, examples                |
| `security`   | Authentication, authorization, validation      |
| `review`     | Code review, refactoring suggestions           |
| `worker`     | General purpose (claims any role)              |

## Storage

### Directory Structure

```
~/.claude/teamwork/{project}/{team}/
├── project.json              # Project metadata and statistics
├── waves.json                # Wave definitions and progress (v2)
├── tasks/
│   ├── 1.json                # Individual task files
│   ├── 2.json
│   └── ...
└── verification/             # Verification results (v2)
    ├── wave-1.json
    ├── wave-2.json
    └── final.json
```

### Task File Format

```json
{
  "id": "1",
  "title": "Setup database schema",
  "description": "Create user and post tables with migrations",
  "role": "backend",
  "status": "open",
  "blocked_by": [],
  "wave": 1,
  "created_at": "2026-01-12T10:30:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2026-01-12T10:30:00Z",
  "claimed_by": null,
  "evidence": [
    {
      "type": "command",
      "command": "npm run migrate",
      "output": "Migration completed successfully",
      "exit_code": 0,
      "timestamp": "2026-01-12T10:35:00Z"
    },
    {
      "type": "file",
      "action": "created",
      "path": "prisma/migrations/001_users/migration.sql",
      "timestamp": "2026-01-12T10:34:00Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Task statuses:**
- `open`: Available for claiming
- `in_progress`: Claimed by a worker
- `resolved`: Completed with evidence

**Evidence types (v2):**
- `command`: Command execution with exit code
- `file`: File operations (created, modified, deleted)
- `test`: Test results with pass/fail counts
- `note`: General observations

### Project File Format

```json
{
  "project": "my-app",
  "team": "feature-auth",
  "goal": "Build REST API with authentication",
  "created_at": "2026-01-12T10:30:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2026-01-12T10:35:00Z",
  "stats": {
    "total": 10,
    "open": 3,
    "in_progress": 2,
    "resolved": 5
  }
}
```

## Workflows

### Interactive Workflow

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start project coordination
/teamwork "build todo app with React frontend and Express backend"

# Terminal 2: Backend specialist
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop

# Terminal 3: Frontend specialist
/teamwork-worker --role frontend --loop

# Terminal 4: Test specialist
/teamwork-worker --role test --loop

# Terminal 5: Monitor progress
/teamwork-status
```

### Single Developer Workflow

```bash
# Start project
/teamwork "implement user authentication"

# Work on one task at a time
/teamwork-worker

# Check what's left
/teamwork-status

# Continue with next task
/teamwork-worker
```

### Loop Mode Workflow

Loop mode uses hook-based continuation for unattended execution:

1. Worker completes a task
2. Outputs special marker: `__TEAMWORK_CONTINUE__`
3. Stop hook detects marker and checks for more tasks
4. Hook re-triggers `/teamwork-worker` with same context
5. Loop continues until no open tasks remain

**Loop state tracking:**
- State stored per-terminal in `~/.claude/teamwork/.loop-state/{pid}.json`
- Preserves project, team, and role filter across iterations
- Automatically cleaned up when loop exits

**Fresh start mechanism (v2):**
- Orchestrator monitors task claim timestamps
- Tasks stuck in `in_progress` for longer than `--fresh-start-interval` seconds are released
- Default: 3600 seconds (1 hour)
- Prevents workers from blocking tasks indefinitely if they hang or crash
- Workers can detect task release and abandon work gracefully
- Configurable via `--fresh-start-interval N` (0 to disable)

```bash
# Start continuous worker (default: 1 hour fresh start)
/teamwork-worker --loop

# Or with role specialization
/teamwork-worker --role backend --loop

# With custom fresh start interval (30 minutes)
/teamwork-worker --loop --fresh-start-interval 1800
```

### Project Override Workflow

```bash
# Work on specific project/team combination
/teamwork-worker --project myapp --team bugfix-123 --loop
```

## Troubleshooting

### Worker Not Finding Tasks

```bash
# Check if tasks exist
/teamwork-status --verbose

# Verify project and team names match
/teamwork-status --project myapp --team feature-123
```

### Tasks Not Being Claimed

```bash
# Check role filter - workers with --role only claim matching tasks
/teamwork-worker --role backend

# Use general worker to claim any role
/teamwork-worker
```

### Multiple Workers Claiming Same Task

This should not happen due to OCC (Optimistic Concurrency Control). If it does:
- Check filesystem supports atomic file operations
- Verify task files are not being corrupted
- Check for clock skew issues (timestamps must be accurate)
- OCC prevents this better than file-based locking (no NFS issues)

### Loop Mode Not Continuing

```bash
# Check loop state file
cat ~/.claude/teamwork/.loop-state/{pid}.json

# Verify stop hook is registered
# Loop mode requires hook system to be active
```

### Project State Corruption

```bash
# Task files are individual JSON files
# If corrupted, manually fix the specific task file
nano ~/.claude/teamwork/{project}/{team}/tasks/{id}.json

# Or delete corrupted task and recreate
rm ~/.claude/teamwork/{project}/{team}/tasks/{id}.json
```

## Backward Compatibility

Teamwork v2 maintains full backward compatibility with v1:

### Compatibility Matrix

| Feature | v1 Behavior | v2 Behavior | Migration Required |
|---------|-------------|-------------|-------------------|
| **Commands** | `/teamwork`, `/teamwork-worker`, `/teamwork-status` | Same + `/teamwork-verify` | No - all v1 commands work |
| **Evidence** | Simple strings | Structured objects | No - both formats supported |
| **Waves** | Not used | Optional wave execution | No - enabled via `--plans` flag |
| **Verification** | Manual | Automatic (if waves.json exists) | No - opt-in |

### Migration Paths

**Existing Projects (v1 → v2)**:
1. Continue using v1 mode (no changes needed)
2. Add `waves.json` manually to enable wave verification
3. Use `--plans` flag on new projects for wave support

**New Projects**:
- Use `--plans` flag: Enables wave-based execution and verification
- Use goal string: Traditional v1 mode without waves

**Mixed Mode**:
- v1 projects can adopt wave verification by adding `waves.json`
- Workers support both evidence formats simultaneously
- Dashboard shows wave progress if waves.json exists, otherwise traditional view

## Requirements

- **Claude Code CLI**: Latest version with plugin support
- **Bun**: 1.3+ for script execution
- **Git**: For project/team name detection (optional)
- **Platform**: Windows, MacOS, or Linux
- **Filesystem**: Must support atomic file operations

## License

MIT
